community-membership.md: add community membership guidelines (#12)
operator-framework/community: community-membership.md

# Community membership

**Note:** This document is in progress

This doc outlines the various responsibilities of contributor roles in
Operator Framework. The Operator Framework project is subdivided into subprojects.
Responsibilities for most roles are scoped to these subprojects.

| Role | Responsibilities | Requirements | Defined by |
| -----| ---------------- | ------------ | -------|
| member | active contributor in the community | sponsored by 2 reviewers, multiple contributions to the project | Operator Framework GitHub org member. |
| reviewer | review contributions from other members | history of review and authorship in a subproject | [OWNERS] file reviewer entry. |
| approver | approve accepting contributions | highly experienced and active reviewer + contributor to a subproject | [OWNERS] file approver entry|

> | subproject owner | set direction and priorities for a subproject | demonstrated responsibility and excellent technical judgment for the subproject | [sigs.yaml] subproject [OWNERS] file *owners* entry |

Reviewer: May `admins` instead of `subproject owner`?

Reviewer 2: the term "subproject owner" is used in a bunch of CNCF projects, so it's fairly well understood

## New contributors

New contributors should be welcomed to the community by existing members,
helped with PR workflow, and directed to relevant documentation and

> communication channels.

Reviewer 2: do we have a "getting started for contributors" doc?  If so, we should link it here (if not, lemme add a TODO).

Author: No, will add a TODO.

Reviewer 3: Here's what we currently have. This doc should be mentioned somewhere in these docs
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.MD
https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/contribution-guidelines/

## Established community members

Established community members are expected to demonstrate their adherence to the
principles in this document, familiarity with project organization, roles,
policies, procedures, conventions, etc., and technical and/or writing ability.
Role-specific expectations, responsibilities, and requirements are enumerated
below.

## Member

Members are continuously active contributors in the community. They can have
issues and PRs assigned to them and pre-submit tests are automatically run for
their PRs. Members are expected to remain active contributors to the community.

**Defined by:** Member of the Operator Framework GitHub organization

### Requirements

- Enabled [two-factor authentication] on their GitHub account.

> - Have made multiple contributions to the project or community. Contribution may include, but is not limited to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have made multiple contributions to the project. A contribution may include, but is not limited to:
```

Reviewer: Cannot the `OR community` make it questionable?

Reviewer 2: I think the emphasis is meant to indicate that contributions outside of Github can count -- organizing a set of OF workshops, for example.

>     - Authoring or reviewing PRs on GitHub.

Reviewer: Authoring? if the person is not a member so I do not think that is possible to authorize something. 
```suggestion
    - Reviewing PRs on GitHub.
```

Reviewer 2: Anyone can submit a PR.  They can't merge it, but they can certainly write it.  -1

>     - Filing or commenting on issues on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Raising and helping to solve issues on GitHub
```

Reviewer 2: +1, since random comments aren't valuable.

      or the org they are sponsoring for.
      - An approver/reviewer in the [Operator Framework org] may sponsor someone for the [Operator Framework org]
      as long as it's a project they're involved with.
- **[Open an issue][membership request] against the operator-framework/org repo**
   - Ensure your sponsors are @mentioned on the issue
   - Complete every item on the checklist ([preview the current version of the template][membership template])
   - Make sure that the list of contributions included is representative of your work on the project.
- Have your sponsoring reviewers reply confirmation of sponsorship: `+1` or `/lgtm`
- Once your sponsors have responded, your request will be reviewed by a Operator Framework GitHub org admin. Any missing information will be requested.

### Responsibilities and privileges

- Responsive to issues and PRs assigned to them
- Active owner of code they have contributed (unless ownership is explicitly transferred)
  - Code is well tested
  - Tests consistently pass
  - Addresses bugs or issues discovered after code is accepted

> - Members can do `/lgtm` on open PRs.

Reviewer: IMO just the LGTM's done by reviewers should be counted by the bot.

Reviewer 4: Yeah, assuming we're just trying to mirror the way Kube has stuff set up, shouldn't this be a thing for Reviewers?

Author: The goal of letting members `/lgtm` is to allow them to build up to reviewer status by actually getting review experience, therefore I want this requirement to stick around. I don't think tide will merge a PR unless a reviewer assigned to a PR gives a `/lgtm`.

Reviewer 4: I'm not entirely clear on how the current OWNERS are going to be fit into these new roles. Does that mean a person will have to be a Reviewer for their LGTM to actually count for merge purposes, or an Approver? or what?

Author: AFAIK your review only counts if you are assigned to a PR.

Reviewer 4: OK. Could we write that down somewhere? I think it's a good idea for the on-ramp for new contributors to be as simple and well-documented as possible. Now that I think about it, a New Contributers's Guide section to the How To Contribute page in the regular docs might be a good place to put this sort of stuff...

Author: Wrote down this label requirement. Still need a new contributor's guide though.

## Reviewer

Reviewers are able to review code for quality and correctness on some part of a
subproject. They are knowledgeable about both the codebase and software
engineering principles.

**Defined by:** *reviewers* entry in an OWNERS file in a repo owned by the
Operator Framework project.

Reviewer status is scoped to a part of the codebase.

**Note:** Acceptance of code contributions requires at least one approver in
addition to the assigned reviewers.

### Requirements

The following apply to the part of codebase for which one would be a reviewer in
an [OWNERS] file (for repos using the bot).

- member for at least 3 months
- Primary reviewer for at least 5 PRs to the codebase
- Reviewed or merged at least 20 substantial PRs to the codebase
- Knowledgeable about the codebase
- Sponsored by a subproject approver
  - With no objections from other approvers
  - Done through PR to update the OWNERS file
- May either self-nominate, be nominated by an approver in this subproject, or be nominated by a robot

### Responsibilities and privileges

The following apply to the part of codebase for which one would be a reviewer in
an [OWNERS] file (for repos using the bot).

> - Tests are automatically run for PullRequests from members of the Operator Framework GitHub organization

Reviewer 4: Isn't this redundant with "Tests can be run against their PRs automatically. No `/ok-to-test` needed." from being a member?

> - Code reviewer status may be a precondition to accepting large code contributions

Reviewer 3: "may be" is a little unclear. I assume that this precondition would be made by existing reviewers/approvers as part of a PR review?

Author: This would read better as: "Large code contributions by non-reviewers is acceptable at the discretion of existing PR reviewers"

- Responsible for project quality control via [code reviews]
  - Focus on code quality and correctness, including testing and factoring
  - May also review for more holistic issues, but not a requirement
- Expected to be responsive to review requests as per [community expectations]
- Assigned PRs to review related to subproject of expertise
- Assigned test bugs related to subproject of expertise

> - Granted "read access" to operator-framework repo

Reviewer: what does it mean?

Reviewer 4: I think this means hidden repos for keeping track of hidden state like keys and stuff for test infrastructure and junk? Not sure, but I would like this clarified.

Author: This is Github read access, which is an organization setting.

Approver status is scoped to a part of the codebase.

### Requirements

The following apply to the part of codebase for which one would be an approver
in an [OWNERS] file (for repos using the bot).

- Reviewer of the codebase for at least 3 months
- Primary reviewer for at least 10 substantial PRs to the codebase
- Reviewed or merged at least 30 PRs to the codebase
- Nominated by a subproject owner
  - With no objections from other subproject owners
  - Done through PR to update the top-level OWNERS file

### Responsibilities and privileges

The following apply to the part of codebase for which one would be an approver
in an [OWNERS] file (for repos using the bot).

- Approver status may be a precondition to accepting large code contributions
- Demonstrate sound technical judgment
- Responsible for project quality control via [code reviews]
  - Focus on holistic acceptance of contribution such as dependencies with other features, backwards / forwards
    compatibility, API and flag definitions, etc
- Expected to be responsive to review requests as per [community expectations]
- Mentor contributors and reviewers
- May approve code contributions for acceptance

> ## Subproject Owner

Reviewer: Can someone from the community become to be a `Subproject Owner/admin`? if not, I think we do not need to add this section.

Reviewer 2: since Operator Framework is a CNCF project now, yes they can.  If they can't, OF's advancement in the CNCF will be blocked.

So if there's more things we need to do in order to make it possible to have community subproject owners, we need to address them.
